Now that our state is living inside of our component,
the next step we want to take is we want to make it so,
whenever we click on one of these Delete buttons here,
our application will delete the specific user that we clicked on.
So, how we're going to do this is because our state
is living up here inside of our AppComponent.
We're going to add a method to our AppComponent which is responsible for taking
in the specific contact and then deleting that contact from our contacts array.
And then in order to get that method down to
our ListContacts component so we could hook it up to the button,
we will pass it in as a prop.
Now, I know that was a lot of words.
Let's go ahead and see it in action.
So, what we want to do is let's create a removeContact method up here.
And again the reason that the removeContact method is living inside of
our AppComponent and not our ListContacts component is because that's where the data is.
The data is living inside of our AppComponents.
So, if we want to create a method which modifies that data,
we need to do it wherever our state is living,
which currently is the AppComponent.
So, what this method is going to do is,
it will take in an actual contact and
then now we want to modify the state of our component.
To do that, we can use
the setState method which is going to be located on the component instance.
Now, there's two ways to use setState.
The first way is,
you pass an object and then every
key on this object will be merged with the current state.
The other way to you setState is by passing it a function.
So, here we're passing it a function which is returning an object and
this object that we're returning from
the function is going to be merged with the current state.
So, what are the differences between these two?
Well, when you're updating the state based of the previous state,
like what we're going to be doing inside of this function,
we'll need to use the callbacks at state.
That's because, as the first argument to this function,
we're going to be past the current state.
If you're not updating the state of the component based on the current state,
then you can use the object setState.
But it's my preference to always just use
the functional setState because I never really
like to think about whether I should use one or the other.
Instead, I just always use functional setState.
Now that's a preference, you can use either one.
But again, if you're updating the state of your component based on the previous state,
then you always need to use functional setState
because it passes you the current state of your component.
So, now what we'll do is we want to update contacts and what we want the new contacts to
be is the result of calling currentState.contact.filter.
So, we want to filter out a specific contact and the contact we want to filter
out is where the id does not equal the id of the contact that we passed in.
So, if you've never used filter before, what this is going to do is,
it's going to return us a brand new array,
removing the specific contact that we passed in when we invoked removeContact.
But now, the problem we have is we have this method,
but we need to figure out a way to actually invoke it.
Well, what we want to do is,
we want to invoke it whenever one of these buttons is clicked.
But the UI for rendering one of these buttons isn't inside of our AppComponent,
instead it's inside of our ListContacts component.
So, just as we are passing data down as a prop here with our contacts,
we can also pass a function down to be invoked later on.
So, what we'll do is,
let's have an onDeleteContact prop here,
which is going to reference our removeContact method.
And then, now just as we are doing with
our contacts inside our list contacts component here,
what we can do with our button is we can say whenever this button is clicked on,
go ahead and invoke this arrow function.
And then when that arrow function is invoked,
go ahead and invoke props.onDeleteContact,
which again is just going to be referencing removeContact here.
And when we invoke our removeContact function,
what we want to pass it,
is the contact we want to remove.
So, what we can do is,
just pass a contact which is going to be
this specific contact that we are mapping over right here.
So, now what should happen is when we click on an individual contact,
we get an error which was unexpected but we can fix it.
So, this should be currentState.contacts, not.contact.
So, let's head over and it's going to be right here.
So, the state property is, as I mentioned,
Contacts, so we can go ahead and add an 's' right there.
And the now if all of this is working,
when we click on an individual contact,
let's do myself, then that individual contact is going to be removed.